字号：小 中 大 

Speak Lord, for your servant is listening
Listening to God’s Words
Laval Yau
  One can listen to God and His Word in so many ways that I can only tell you about the ones that I have found most useful in my life. Before we do that, I need to first tell you why it is important that we listen to God and His word. 

  Why listen to God’s Word 

  Exposure 

  I am told that we watch 1,000 murders on average every year on TV and in movies. We listen to some 5,000 profane words during that same period of time. If we are going to be exposed to such unholy influences, how much more important it is for us to be immersed in the sanctifying sea of God’s words. Somehow we have to flush out the vile and replace it with the wholesome. We have to fight to keep our heads absorbed by the divine thoughts and not the base and vulgar notions that are so prevalent. 

  This takes a conscious effort to do. We can easily become like sheep who blindly follow what others do. We however, as Christians, have a great Shepherd, who take us to where the greener grass is. We have to seek out God because we live in a desert of profanity and ungodliness, just like David did. “You, God, are my God, earnestly I seek you; I thirst for you, my whole being longs for you, in a dry and parched land where there is no water.” (Psalm 63:1). 

  Experience 

  More importantly though we need to be constantly making changes in our lives. When we started off as a Christian we came with all the old baggage that we had. This inheritance that we have comes from our background, our culture, our parents, our experiences; all of which are not necessarily of God. We are told that we have to make every thought captive to Christ (2 Cor 10:5). Everything in our mind has to be renewed in the light of Christ. We have been made new when we come to Christ Jesus (2 Cor 5:17). We have to put behind us what was old and belonged to the past. We move forward now with the new mind of Christ. The only way that this can happen is through the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit (1 Pet 1:2) which comes as we sit at God’s feet. 

  We must experience God’s mighty power in our lives by constantly being immersed in His word and listening to what He has to say to us. This experience can only be gained through constant application of the Word of God to our lives. Hebrews 5:14 tells us that it is only by training that we can distinguish good from evil. So let us open ourselves to the renewing power of Christ Jesus as we listen to what He has to say about our past, present and future. 

  Exaltation 

  One final reason why we need to listen to God’s word is because we need to conform to Christ’s image (Rom 8:29). The second reason I gave above had to do with the changes that take place in one’s mind and thoughts. Now I am talking about the changes that need to take place in one’s behaviour, in the ways that one’s thoughts are translated into actions. God is not pleased when we follow the ways of the world (Eze 11:12). He wants us to abide by the new code of behaviour which is exemplified in His Son, Christ Jesus. The popular, WWJD, “What would Jesus do” is an apt rendition of this deep transformation that needs to take place in us. Our new standard is Jesus. We must do like He would do. We must behave like He would behave. He is our model and the Perfecter of our faith (Heb 12:1). 

  We additionally have to lift Jesus up not only for our own sakes but also for that of others. As Jesus is portrayed as crucified and alive in our lives, He will draw all men to Him (John 12:32). 

  Ways to listen to God’s Word 

  Now to the main subject of this article. How do we listen to God’s word? 

  Audibly 

  The best way to listen to God’s word is to use your ears. God had given us ears to hear what He has to say. The verb, ‘hear’, appears 356 times in the NIV version. Each time God is pleading with us to listen to Him. The most famous, ‘hear’ comes from Deu 6:3, “Hear, Israel, and be careful to obey so that it may go well with you …” God each time is asking us to hear so that we can lead a good life, a better one that the one we currently have. 

  So listen, we must. How? I like reading my bible aloud every so often. I just like listening to the sound of these words of God. I know that they are English (or Chinese) translated words from the original languages but the translators, under the influence of the Holy Spirit and through much research and hard work, have imbued these words with great poetry and cadence that are so pleasing to the ears. For me, just listening to God’s words being read aloud, sends shivers down my spine and makes my soul tremble. I have now become so sensitive to the hearing of God’s word that when I hear it being read, I get all emotional. 

  A word here about Scripture Reading from the pulpit. If you are asked to ever read the Scripture, please do it with reverence and with passion that will move people to tears. There is nothing like bible verses read with authority and yet with the emotion that is embedded in the text. Try to make the words become alive so that they get people’s attention. The word of God was meant to stir the soul and revive the spirit. So let us make sure that scripture reading is not boring and a chore. 

  There is a great biblical example of this in Nehemiah 8:1-9 but there are other examples given in the old testament (Deu 31:11-13, Jos 8:34, Jer 36:6, etc.). 

  In Myanmar, each time the word of God is read aloud in a congregation or in a group, the reader has to stand and in Mexico, not only the reader stands but all those listening to that Word also have to stand. There is a reality of the presence of God as His word is being read that demands our total attention and respect. So I would encourage you to listen to the word of God being read aloud often. 

  The bible is now on audio CD’s and obviously on mp3 files which can be downloaded on your hand-held device and listened to. If y
￼
ou cannot have access to this technology, just read the word yourself. Listen to your own voice saying out the words of God and you will be amazed at its transforming power. 

  God can speak loud enough for us to hear Him either in our ‘inner’ ear or audibly. This happened to Samuel (1 Sam 3:2-10) and to Saul, who later became Paul (Acts 9:4). Both responded positively. I have heard God’s voice clearly spoken to me several times before. This usually happened in times of great need and stress. God does not leave us without any witness. I realize that hearing God’s voice can sound strange and can be subject to misinterpretation and abuse but the reality is that it does happen. Many, other than me, can testify that they have heard God’s voice and can swear that it helped them in their time of need to know the right path and have the right answer. 

  Weekly Sermons 

  One of the easiest ways that we can listen to God is through the weekly Sunday sermons. I realize that not all preachers are good but all of them have something that you can take home with you and apply in your life. Many a times we think that there is nothing that a particular preacher can teach us but that’s not true. God always speaks to us through His servants. Some speak more to our lives than others but they all do to a certain extent. So change your attitude towards the preacher and ask God to let you find something in what the preacher is saying that will glorify Him or help you in your own life. You will only get out of what you put into it. So think positive, focus on the subject at hand and you will greatly benefit. 

  I have found that taking notes during a sermon allows me to concentrate better. It also has the advantage that I can review these notes later. So I would highly recommend that you have a notebook for each year and in it you can write down all the sermons that you have heard in that year. This little technique will allow you to listen to God’s word more specifically as it relates to you. You will process the information better not only through your mind but also through your heart as you meditate quietly on the sermons that you hear. That’s 30-40 minutes of just you and God and you must not waste that time week after week. On the contrary, see what God will have you hear and absorb. 

  In Silence 

  The traditional way of listening to God’s word, paradoxically enough, is through silence. Hab 2:20 tells us that “The Lord is in his holy temple; let all the earth be silent before him.” In other words, silence is associated with the presence of God. 

  Good as reading is, either silently or aloud, in order to listen to the word of God, it has one major disadvantage and that is that one can listen superficially. In other words, one can listen to something and then walk away without having been affected by what’s been heard. James describes this phenomenon in Jas 1:23-24. 

  Silence has the unique ability of demanding a special effort on our part. We live in a very noisy world and the external impediment is forever present. However, it is not just the outside noise that can crowd out communion with the Holy, it can also be non-audible noise, the noise that is inside us. We can have storms raging inside us while all is calm outside. So both the internal and external brouhaha can represent a challenge to us who want to be silent in front of God. 

  We can overcome the problem of external noise by choosing a time of day when there are naturally fewer decibels around. That usually means early in the morning or late in the evening. It is noteworthy that ‘very early in the morning, while it was still dark, Jesus got up, left the house and went off to a solitary place, where he prayed.’ (Mark 1:35). He knew the right time to be alone with God. May we also be wise and intentional in choosing the best time to facilitate that oneness with God! 

  At the opposite end of the day, we find that it was at night (1 Sam 3:2-10) that the Lord sought out Samuel and his response at the end of the third call was, “Speak Lord, for your servant is listening.” God was heard in the night as Samuel listened. Samuel’s life was changed forever more by this encounter. 

  This should be our response too as we come to God either at the break of dawn or as the night cools off. We should heed the counsel given in Ps. 119:147-148 and be with God, meditating on His word from morning to evening. 

  147 I rise before dawn and cry for help; I have put my hope in your word. 
  148 My eyes stay open through the watches of the night that I may meditate on your promises. 

  It is only in silence that God is truly revealed. We can come face to face with Him there. Ps 46:10 is instructive here: 

  10 He says, "Be still, and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth. 11 The Lord Almighty is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress.” We see God exalted and in His majesty when we remain silent. 

  Meditation 

  This is a good segue way into the whole topic of mediation. 

  The word, “meditate” occurs 8x in Psalm 119, the longest psalm and longest chapter in the bible that extols the value of God’s word. 

  We are told in verses 99 and 100 that meditation brings about wisdom and understanding and reinforces that practice makes perfect, which I will explain in 3.2 below: 

  99 I have more insight than all my teachers, for I meditate on your statutes. 
  100 I have more understanding than the elders, for I obey your precepts. 

  Just prior to that, we are told that the Psalmist does his meditation throughout the day: 

  97 Oh, how I love your law! 

  I meditate on it all day long. 

  So how does one meditate then? One usually thinks of meditation as something one does in a specific period of time or at a given time during the day and for a certain length of time. But one can meditate all day long because meditation does not have to last long. One can gather one together to spend time thinking on a word, a phrase, a thought and an idea at any time. It just means that one has to zoom in on a particular item and just dwell on it long enough to allow it to penetrate into one’s mind and soul. It is just like tasting good food or good wine. One savours it. One takes it around one’s mouth over and over again until we can delight on all the aromas and nuances that our taste buds can pick up. 

  So it is with God’s word. “Taste and see that the Lord is good …” (Psalm 34:8) and “How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!” (Psalm 119:103). 

  Jeremiah said 

  Ways to God’s Word 

  In this last section I want to address the different ways that makes listening to God’s word easier and more effective. 

   Eternal Stories 

  When we first got to know the bible, especially if we grew up in a church like I did, our first remembrance of it is the number of stories that it contains. What child does not remember the story of Jonah and the whale, of David and Goliath and of Samson bringing down the temple? 

  Stories have a great way to attract our attention. The prophet Nathan in order to get David to repent of his sin of adultery with Bathsheba used a powerful story to great effect (2 Samuel 12:1-14). Thus stories are able to bring to life deep spiritual truths and cause us to move into action. 

  Jesus used the same technique in the New Testament. His parables are incisive ways of conveying eternal truths in the form of stories. He was a master at that. So my point here is that when we listen to God’s words, we hear them in forms that are most appealing to us. 

  From an anthropological point of view, there are many cultures which do not have a written language and the only way that their history, anecdotes, tradition are passed on from generation to generation is orally. People tell the stories and the others listen. 

  God has spoken ‘to our ancestors through the prophets at many times and in various ways, 2 but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom also he made the universe. (Heb 1:1-2). We are therefore to listen. We must neither break the chain nor the tradition. 

  Listening to God’s word is one way of making sure that we pass on to the next generation precisely what our forefathers have passed on to us. When you listen to God’s word, you are eavesdropping on eternity. It is not just the today but the forever that you are listening to. What was and now is and will go on forever into eternity. 

  Psalm 119:89-90 

  89 Your word, Lord, is eternal; it stands firm in the heavens. 
  90 Your faithfulness continues through all generations; you established the earth, and it endures. 

  From a practical point of view, this means that you should use stories to help you listen to God’s words more easily. Good novels based on biblical stories directly or biblical values are very helpful to many people because they exemplify in real life what obeying and living by God’s words is all about. 

  In the same vein, movies, as stories presented visually, can be also be a powerful tool to listen to God’s word and to have others listen to God’s word. So use stories wherever you can. It goes without saying that children can only process stories. So it is not surprising that Jesus said that the Kingdom of heaven belong to the little children (Mat 18:3, 19:14) and that our faith must resemble theirs. Children love stories and get the meaning of the Kingdom a lot faster than we do. Let us all be little children and love stories at bed time every night. 

   Practice makes perfect 

  We must listen to God’s word over and over again. If we read 4 chapters of our bible we can finish reading the whole bible in a year. This means that in an average life-time, one can read the bible at least 40 times. That’s a lot of times, one would argue. Unfortunately that is not what is needed. C.S. Lewis has said that we do not need to be educated as much as be reminded. In other words, we can actually learn very quickly but we also forget as quickly. So repeating an action helps us remember. So when you listen to God’s words, do it often. Do not count the number of times. The words of God bear repeating. You will never get bored of them. 

  There are always news things to learn and discover. You might know a verse well and then one day you will be surprised that someone tells you that same verse but with a different spin to it, a slightly different emphasis is applied or a novel application is eked out of it. That’s what’s supposed to happen. God’s word is so rich that it is meant to be used for eternity, for all ages, at all times, in all circumstances and by all peoples. 

  Another way to keep that word alive is of course to practice it. This will be covered by other articles in this magazine later but for now, I do want to stress that if one does not have the endless cycle of listening followed by practice, one is wasting one’s time. Ezekiel complained about this in Eze 34:31: My people come to you, as they usually do, and sit before you to hear your words, but they do not put them into practice. Their mouths speak of love, but their hearts are greedy for unjust gain. 

  The disconnect that has happened from times eternal, between listening and practice continues to this day. Let me put it another way. If you find that you are reluctant or lazy to read God’s word and listen to it, it is most likely because you are not practising it. In other words, if you are actively living a vibrant Christian life, you would readily gravitate around God’s word. You would be looking for it and imbibing it all the time. It is only if you are straying far from the Lord that you would find His word very dull and boring and you would not want to listen to anything that He says. 

  This is well captured by Jesus when He replied in Luke 8:21, "My mother and brothers are those who hear God's word and put it into practice." Paul in Hebrews 5:14 echoes the same idea, “But solid food is for the mature, who by constant use have trained themselves to distinguish good from evil.” 

   Self-Service from Smorgasbord 

  Psalm 119:4 You have laid down precepts that are to be fully obeyed. 

  The force of this verse is that God has laid down these rules and we are not to pick and choose what we want. It is not like a bu
￼
ffet where we can pick the best dishes and leave the ones that we don’t like. All the food has to be consumed at God’s banquet. 

  There are many verses in the bible, many stories and many events that we would rather not hear or be part of. A story is told about this lady in Ireland who decided to take her bible and cut out from it all the verses that she did not like. When she was finished, the bible fell apart because there was almost nothing left to keep the pages together. Truth be said that most of the commands in the bible are counter-intuitive, in other words, we would not normally gravitate to them. We do not like them. They are tough. They are difficult to understand sometimes and even more difficult to live out. So we prefer to turn away from them. 

  That is why this verse insists that all the commands are to be fully obeyed, the emphasis is on ‘fully’, meaning completely. No pick and choose here. 

  That’s the cold side of this verse. The warm part of this verse is that as one obeys these commands, they become easier to understand to the point that the psalmist can say in Psalm 119 verse 16 16 I delight in your decrees; I will not neglect your word. 

  The road from aversion of some rules to taking great joy in them is a long and arduous one. The effort and time taken cannot be underestimated. That is why the psalmist again says in Psalm 119 v. 56: 

  This has been my practice: I obey your precepts. 

  Affliction & Tribulation 

  Not surprisingly, we are most attuned to God when we are in difficulties. When we have exhausted all other ways, we usually turn to God. Even if we have not tried other ways, we are usually in a more receptive mood when we are focussed on our pain and loneliness. That’s when the voice of God come through more clearly. We tend to listen to God more when we have setbacks in our life. 

  The psalmist is absolutely right when in Psalm 119:71 he says, “It was good for me to be afflicted so that I might learn your decrees.” We learn a lot from God about Himself and about ourselves when we go through hard times. Later on the psalmist goes on to say, 92 If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction. 

  James in the New Testament echoes the same sentiment, “Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds,” (Jas 1:2). Trials are pure joy because they force us to look for God, turn to Him and listen more intently to Him. Trials and tribulation are good for us because they draw us closer to God. No one wants to go through these tough times but they are the substance out of which pure gold can be forged. We must not run away from difficulties. They are God’s way of making us more like His Son, Jesus. 

  C.S. Lewis said that pain is God’s megaphone. Suffering is the one way that God uses to get our attention and have us re-examine our lives. Sometimes we just keep going thinking that we are doing well while there are in fact many sins in our lives which have been accumulating along the way and about which we were not even aware. Through trials God stops us dead in our track and forces us to sit down and re-consider our ways. Suddenly our pride is broken and we have to acknowledge that we are not so self-sufficient after all. We kneel down and become more attentive to what God is saying. Hopefully we will make amends and change our ways but it is sufficient to have stopped and listened to God. 

  The Timely Teacher 

  We need to listen to God because he is our ultimate teacher (Psalm 119:102). There are so many things in life that we do not know. There are so many circumstances that we do not know how to handle. There are so many issues that we do not know how to resolve. The only person who has all answers is God Himself. So we have to spend time with Him, hearing Him out. 

  We are like little children who need to be taught new things all the time. We are so vulnerable without the shield of God’s counsel. There are many people who surround us and can help us in our times of need but there is only one Perfect Person who can give us the right answer. So we need to approach the throne of Grace (Heb 4:16) and there listen to God so that we can receive all that we need for any situation. 

  Psalm 119:130 promises that even the most complex dilemmas will be resolved by listening and applying God’s word. 130 The unfolding of your words gives light; it gives understanding to the simple. 

  Like all teachers, though, God will also discipline us if we do not conform to the teachings or keep making mistakes after mistakes but as Hebrews 12:10-11 reminds us, we will be better off for the discipline. God is good and all that He does is good. (Psalm 119:68). 
   

  Let me end with these verses for they summarize all that I have written and would wish for all of you who have read this article this far. May these verses be true for you! 

  Isaiah 50:4-5 

  4 The Sovereign Lord has given me a well- instructed tongue, to know the word that sustains the weary. He wakens me morning by morning, wakens my ear to listen like one being instructed. 
  5 The Sovereign Lord has opened my ears; I have not been rebellious, I have not turned away. 

   