得救见证
Leave and Return
Henry Hu

My Childhood
The first time I encountered heaven and hell was through the cartoon Tom and Jerry as a child. One day, Tom dreamt that he reached heaven but was stopped by an angel because he had always bullied Jerry. He was given a task: to get Jerry's signature on his ticket to heaven. Unsuccessful, Tom woke up and realized it was a dream. Feeling deeply moved, Tom reconciled with Jerry. At that time, I learned two lessons from this cartoon: to enter heaven, one must do good deeds and face judgment.

In the World
In junior high, I felt mentally and physically exhausted from school and tutoring. I remember hesitating at crosswalks, gazing at the dazzling billboards on the buildings. I wondered if the billboards would still shine decades later, and what my friends and family in the car would look like. In a thousand years, we might become petroleum or terracotta warriors (I always believed this as a child). We could be excavated by future generations and placed in a museum. What eternal thing was worth yearning for amidst such haste? However, these thoughts would always be scattered by the sudden honk of a car, as I continue to the next intersection. My life from elementary to high school was consumed by busyness, with little time or courage to ponder these abstract questions. Eventually, I became convinced that with limited abilities, only continuous effort could make me shine like the billboards.
<4_huweiyi.jpg, 作者>

In University
While studying at the University of Toronto, I attended a gospel church with my roommate for stress relief, socializing, and learning about faith. It was a sweet time. Every week, I met with the same group, like a big family. We cared for one another, played sports, partied, and studied the Bible. Faith united us and provided mutual trust. However, my childhood doubts remained, and I wasn't sure if I truly understood faith or trusted in God. 

Then the pandemic swept the globe, and our lives changed drastically. Offline activities moved online, and online gatherings dwindled. I served in the university fellowship and witnessed people leaving, hearing complaints and despair. People from church also left one by one: some moved, some graduated, some worked, some fell in love, some married. My hope for a big family faded and I worried about post-graduation prospects, feeling that my efforts wouldn't meet expectations. Finally, I also silently left the fellowship, church, and gospel church. 

The turning point came in March of the following year when I went to customs for a visa. It was my first prayer in a year, and to my surprise, God granted unexpected peace, guarded my thoughts, and my visa was approved. A week later, I received a job offer. I suddenly realized God's greatness; He guided my life through chaos, possessing the power to transcend and change disorder. With gratitude, I returned to church and fellowship. Offline activities resumed, new friends and a new pastor arrived. It was as if everything resumed, restarted, and returned to its beginning.  

Love and Grace
During my time away from church, Rev. Wong tried to contact me, but I lacked the courage to answer his calls or reply to his messages. Looking back, I can't help but sigh. Our sins make us insignificant before God, causing us to lose His glory. Our hidden sins are the reason we are separated from God. Bound by sin, we not only lose intimacy with God but also face His wrath. Romans 3:23 says, "For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God." Romans 1:18 says, "For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men." Yet in the darkness of sin, we see hope. God has given us a path to redemption through the sacrifice of His only Son. Romans 5:8 says, "But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us." I believe that year away from church was an opportunity and trial given to me by God to better understand myself, others, and Him. 

Secondly, through my expectations of others and God, I realized that I was a self-righteous person. When my needs were unmet, I would be disappointed in others and God. However, God's love for us is so great, as John 3:16 says, "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life." Jesus, thousands of years ago, willingly bore the cross for us, sinners who did not know him. Yet I held grudges against friends and harbored resentment against God for trivial matters. Jesus' sacrifice is far greater than I could ever imagine. His sacrifice shows God's unconditional love for us. Because of His love, He bore the punishment for our sins, overcame death in resurrection, and achieved redemption—enabling us to have a relationship with God, enjoy His grace, and ultimately gain eternal life.

Thirdly, I always believed that through my efforts alone, I could achieve my goals. This notion led me astray, not understanding God's grace and blessings. As Paul said in 1 Corinthians 15:10, "But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace toward me was not in vain; but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me."

Now, I am no longer the self-centered person I once was. I focus more on seeing life from a God-centered perspective. For I know that only by relying on God's grace can we truly become His children and live a life full of love, joy, and faith.

Conclusion
As time flies, the pandemic fades, and decades and millennia pass away. We may become terracotta warriors or underground petroleum, but in this eternal universe, there is a love that never fades.

I believe that in the end, fellowships will still exist, churches will still stand tall, Christ will remain unchanged, and God will always protect us. Throughout the endless ages, His grace is like the rain that nourishes all the earth.

(This article is revised from the author's testimony when he was baptized in downtown Mandarin Congregation on Easter Sunday 2023.)
