生命历程
Becoming a Bible Translator: Start from Learning to Give up
Joyce Wu
  I have always loved to hold on, and hated to let go. During my second year of university, I was learning to let go of my first boyfriend. In addition, my home church was going through some very bad times, and I struggled to trust God with that, because it seemed so wrong for bad things to happen in a church. I read Isaiah that year, and learned much about God’s sovereignty. I cried and prayed about this situation a lot, as my friends can attest, and I was surprised to discover that I also needed to ‘let go’ of my home church – my sense of belonging there. This pained my heart so much… I was quite the ‘drama queen’ at that age. 

  In March of that year, I went to a weekend conference with Campus Crusade for Christ called “People of Purpose.” The speaker said: God will use you if you make him your Master, and if you embrace his mission. In his message on the Master, he used Paul’s example in Philippians 3:7-11, about wanting to know Christ above all else. I felt like I’d had more than enough practice in losing things, saying goodbye to relationships that I valued as part of my identity. My Master said that they weren’t His best for me, and He wanted me to trust him, by giving them up. To direct our attention to the Master’s Mission, the conference speaker preached from John 4:27-38. In the story of the Samaritan woman at the well, Jesus spoke this enigmatic statement to his disciples: ‘I have food to eat that you know nothing about. My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work.’ The work that God sent Jesus to do was to reconcile people to Himself, immediately by calling this Samaritan woman, and ulitmately by going to the cross and dying for our sins. The mission should drive your life, the conference speaker said, the way hunger drives you to eat. Jesus said that to accomplish his Father’s will gave him a satisfaction that made physical hunger seem irrelevant. “God will use you if you make him your Master and if you embrace his mission.” Instead of asking “What is God’s will for my life?” we could ask “What is God doing in this world, and how can I get involved in that same work?” This weekend God had put me “in the right place at the right time,” ready to hear from him, and suddenly there was a personal challenge: Will you embrace my mission, Joyce? 

  I went back to my room and read three Scripture passages that I knew to be about evangelism and missions: Matthew 28:16-20, 2 Corinthians 5:13-15, and now John 4:31-38. I felt myself saying ‘yes’ to God, committing to make evangelism and missions a priority in my life. At this point in my life, this meant a focus on personal evangelism in my life. 

  It wasn’t until 2 years later that I wanted to go overseas for a mission trip. During that time, God had used his Word to broaden my view of his work in history. As I read through the early books of the Old Testament, I realized how much God cared about “the nations,” not just the people of Israel. God’s promises to Abraham were not just the familiar Bible stories of what God did in his life, but had implications for all peoples to receive the blessing of salvation [Gen. 12:3]. This was how we had received salvation, and this was why we are called to share the message with others. I was surprised to find indications of evangelism in the Old Testament! This new understanding enabled me to see missions as God’s work, motivated by God’s heart and God’s plan. I was ready to go on a short-term missions trip, and I thought I would go with Campus Crusade for Christ, but I was also vaguely interested in Wycliffe Bible Translators. I had started taking linguistics classes, and loved them, but I didn’t know any linguists who were Christians, and I didn’t know how useful linguistics would be in Bible translation. Wycliffe USA had a short-term trip called the Discovery program, that I heard about from the Wycliffe website. Through the encouragement of a good friend, I did apply to their summer Discovery trip, and was privileged to travel to the Solomon Islands and Papua New Guinea, for 8 weeks total. 

  No, I did not know where Papua New Guinea was, until the year that I traveled there! Papua New Guinea is north of Australia, and the Solomon Islands is a chain of islands east of PNG. There were 30 students on the PNG Discovery team, and 6 of us on the Solomon Islands Discovery team. We experienced 10 days of PNG orientation and langauge learning (Melanesian Pidgin), 5 days to see the Wycliffe Centre in PNG, and 5 weeks in the Solomon Islands, including 3 weeks in the Arosi language area. I met Solomon Islanders, I saw a small glimpse of the work of Bible translation, and I met Wycliffe missionaries who had spent their whole adult lives overseas, and were thankful for the opportunity. Thankful to be involved in Bible translation ministry, and thankful to raise their kids in a tiny village somewhere. During the debrief meetings of our trip, I realized that really liked what I saw, and that I wanted to do this kind of work, too. One of my teammates and I discussed how we felt such a “fit” with Wycliffe and our own gifts (for careful, analytical work) and passions (for language, for the Bible). I felt weird because if I was thinking about being a Bible translator, suddenly that meant that I was considering becoming a missionary! 

  When I went home from that trip, I knew that I had found something I wanted to do with my life, but I was very scared to talk to my parents about it. They knew what I wanted to do, but I didn’t really talk about it. Long story short, I’ve always felt that God moved me forward, in spite of my fear. I finished up my undergraduate degree, I worked in education (living at home that year), and when the opportunity came, I told my parents that I wanted to begin training for Bible translation, at a school in Dallas, Texas. Going to the school first, instead of applying to Wycliffe first, was helpful for both me and my parents to get used to the idea of me joining Wycliffe Bible Translators. At the Wycliffe Center in Dallas, I met Wycliffe missionaries who told stories of God’s faithfulness over many years. The idea of joining Wycliffe Bible Translators became a conceivable reality, not just a far-off dream. 

  Now, in 2010, I have come home to the US from two years and 4 months in Papua New Guinea. I had good friends there, and did a language program internship that allowed me to spend five 6-week trips in one particular village, with the Urim people (Kalpm dialect) of PNG. After preparing for so long, I loved getting real experience! My work involved language and culture learning, in order to study the grammar of the language. Now, I’m back at the graduate school in Dallas, TX, working on my thesis on Urim grammar. I look forward to returning to Papua New Guinea, sometime in 2011. My prayer request looking forward is whether I should start a new Bible translation project, and if so which language group and for all the details to come together, or continue to specialize in linguistics, helping various language groups. 

  That far-off dream has become my everyday. I have recordings of an endangered language on my computer. I rub shoulders with aspiring Literacy workers and veteran Bible translators. People tell nerdy jokes about passive sentences. Linguistics is my work now, and I need discipline to read the word of God, to not take it for granted. I’m still seeing fear in my life, and I’m learning that in the Bible, faith is the opposite of fear. I still love linguistics, and I still feel privileged to be in Wycliffe. Bible translation needs all sorts of language personnel, and all sorts of support personnel: schoolteachers, software developers, airplane pilots, and more. I think one idea I’ve learned here is that many of the skills you’ve used in other jobs are applicable to your new job on the mission field, whether that’s from architecture or construction, translation to dentistry. It’s not that some activities are more spiritual than others. I do have a dramatic story, but not everyone does, and that’s not why I am in missions. I am in missions because I was blessed to find an area of ministry that fits my interests, skills, and values. It’s important to seek God’s will, to earnestly ask for his guidance in our decisions and life path, but it’s even more important to walk closely with him, to know his character through his Word, and to learn to hear his voice. 

