得救见证
Am I a true Christian?
Angelica Lee

I grew up in a Christian home and went to church every Sunday, but that didn’t mean I was Christian. I rejected God by lying, beingjealousand indifferent to God and faith. Even though I went to many baptismal classes, I didn’t follow through because I onlywanted to do it to fit in with everyone else in my year. I eventually realized I wasn't actually atrue Christian but even knowing that I didn't seem to care. I filled my mind with things that didn’t please the Lord,and like many of my friends, got jealous of other girls being liked by all the boys. I didn’t read the Bible outside of sermons on Sunday, I only prayed in church and when I was asked to. With other Christians, I would sometimes feel like a fakeor even repulsed when they prayed around me; I would sometimes rebel by opening my eyes and not concentrating or closing my ears.
When I was in Grade 12, I became co-president of the school’s Christian Fellowship club mostly because I thought it would look good on my university resume. Leading the club through Bible studies and showing educational Christian videos helped me question where I stood in my faith. I realized I had to decidewhether or notto continue in my role becauseI couldn’t be president of the Christian Fellowship and not be a Christian and I didn’t want to lead any of the club members astray. During this time, one of the church youth counselors  startedchecking in on me regarding how I was doing spiritually. I asked my counselor, “How do I really know if I’m a Christian?” She told me about how we’re all sinners and that none of us are perfect. She said only Jesus can bridge the gap between us and God and that by faith we have eternal life inJesus. She also told me that the life of a Christian is a journey and eventually by drawing close to God, we will see the fruit of the Spirit in our lives like kindness and self-control. I realized that I did in fact show some of these signs in my life;for example, awareness of God’s grace and what Jesus did for me, having the heart to evangelize and further God’s kingdom, and naturally praying and praising God in my daily life. After many talks with counselors and prayer, myfaithbecame clearer. I’m thankful that our God is a personalGod, and even though I take His presence for granted, He has always been there for me. I remember when I started doing devotions with a friend every night,I felt my faith become very real as the Spirit revealed more truths in what I read. 
In the past, I wanted to get baptized to fit in with the rest of my youth group. Baptism just seemed like a ceremony that everyone goesthrough as the right thing to do. I never really cared about what Jesus did for me on the cross. He gave up His life so that I wouldn't have to suffer the punishment for my own wrongdoings,but I didn't see how I needed that. But now I've realized my need for His grace and forgiveness. I’ve accepted Jesus as my personal Saviour,and I am grateful for how much He loves me unconditionally.Now, I’ve started reading the Bible every dayand I want to obey Him by getting baptized. I’mmore aware ofthe songs I listen to and try my best to abstain from explicit and inappropriate songs. I’m more conscious of my words and avoid using God’s name or the word “holy” in vain. I have a desire to help others learn more about Jesus; He gives me boldness to speak out when I hear others disrespecting Jesus and courage to share the gospel with the homeless. I still sin from time to time and I’m by no means perfect,but I’m more aware of it and continue to seek God’s help and grace.
(This article was compiled from the author's testimony when she was baptized on Easter in 2022. The author attends the service of the English Congregationof Toronto.)


