小组团契
Chinese Gospel Youth Group
Simeon and Nancy Wong
  CGYG(Chinese Gospel Church Youth Group) is one of the first fellowships to have started at Chinese Gospel Church. Started in 1964, CGYG was known as “the Fishermen’s Club” and consisted of both students and young, working professionals. Over the past decades, the fellowship has seen its share of significant changes, both in terms of leadership and its goals and focus. 

  My wife Nancy and I currently serve as counselors to people in CGYG. Today, the fellowship consists mainly of university and college students, and this group of the community remains the focus of this ministry, and for us as leaders in the fellowship. 

  Nancy and I joined CGYG at about the same time, around 1999. When I came to CGYG, I was a relatively new Christian, having accepted Christ for a little over 1 year. Looking back, the Lord used this fellowship and its leaders at the time to really help us both grow personally in our spiritual walks with Christ. The emphasis in this fellowship was on properly studying and handling God’s Word, and recognizing the full sufficiency in the Holy Scriptures to provide God’s wisdom for every single circumstance of life, large or small. This was engrained in our minds and in our spiritual life through the counselors at the time, and formed a strong bedrock and foundation for my faith until this very day. I am always so thankful to God when I think about this, because in His great love and sovereignty, He chose to place my wife and me in an environment that loved His Word so much and sought to teach it faithfully. 

  Several years after joining CGYG, we were invited to consider and pray about coming on board as counselors for the group. What this essentially meant was that we would talk a larger role in spiritual oversight of the fellowship. My role would be to oversee the overall spiritual direction of fellowship, and Nancy’s role would be to minister specifically to the girls in the fellowship. With fear and trepidation and some time in prayer and consideration, we accepted the roles of counselors. 

  When we joined CGYG, the group was mixed quite a bit between students and working professionals. Many of the working folks were people who had attended the fellowship while they were students, but had since then graduated and continued attending. By God’s grace, the fellowship continued growing in numbers to over the years to the point that any given Friday, there would be up to 50-60 in attendance! Finally, about 4 years ago, Nancy and I, along with the other fellowship counselors decided to split up the fellowship into two separate ones. One would remain as ‘CGYG’, with a renewed focus on students, and the other is LIFE fellowship, which would focus on ministering to the working people 

  Today, CGYG fellowship consists to about 15 regular members, the majority being men. Over the past 2-3 years, we’ve been praying that God would really grab a hold of the hearts of these students and increase their love for Christ, their devotion to the Word, and their conviction to love others and share the wonderful Gospel message of hope with those around them. We’ve also specifically been praying that God would use CGYG to minister to more girls, and the He would provide us with solid leaders to engage the work at hand. The Lord has certainly been faithful and in answering our prayers, He provided several additional leaders who have a tremendous heart for students, and for taking them under their wing to disciple and mentor them. 

  Looking ahead, we hope to remain focused on the local campuses, and to challenge the students currently attending CGYG to see these Friday meeting times as an opportunity to invite their non-Christian friends to come and see what Christianity is all about, see the love of Christ demonstrated in the community of Christians, and hopefully to come be challenged to the point of decision to become disciples and followers of Jesus Christ. We also hope to work more with the other congregations of CGC to reach out to students from other language backgrounds. With the large influx of new immigrants, and the strong presence of students who’ve recently come to Canada from other countries, there are an increasing number of opportunities to reach many students from all backgrounds with the Gospel. 

  On behalf of the CGYG fellowship and its leaders, we hope that you will partner with us in prayer and in a spirit of cooperation, for Christ and His Kingdom. 
  