字号：小 中 大 


A City of Colliding Worldviews
Sharing Christ’s Uniqueness Amidst Diversity
Dr. Andy Bannister

  We live in a tremendously diverse city here in Toronto. We’re surrounded by every religion conceivable: here in this amazing city you can choose from Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism, Jainism, Judaism, Islamism, Secularism — you can even be a Leafs fan (we call that masochism). 

  How do we live peaceable amidst that diversity? Well most people think the answer is to acknowledge that all the religions of the world are essentially the same—although
￼
outwardly they may look different, underneath, they’re all the same. And so one of the accusations commonly flung at Christians is that they’re arrogant. How can you believe that only you are right when there are all these other religions: Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism — hundreds if not thousands of other religions. 

  I have a friend who is a professor at U. of T who bills himself as a “universalist”. If you’re a universalist you believe that all religions are equally valid—just pick the one you’re comfortable with. Here’s the illustration my friend used: he said we should try to think of all the different religions in the world as being like paths up a mountain. There are hundreds of different paths, so just choose the path that fits you; after all, why worry, all the paths ultimately lead to the top. 

  That sounds such a simple idea, doesn’t it? Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, all the world’s different belief systems and religions are just different paths—and every path leads to the top of the mountain. But hang on a moment. As a hobby, I’m a mountaineer—I climb mountains, whenever I can. A few years ago I even made it to Everest Base Camp. And the thing is: I can confidently tell you this—every path does not lead to the top of the mountain. Some paths lead round the bottom of the mountain. Some lead to sheer cliffs, because they were designed to get rock climbers to a great climb. Some lead in entirely different directions. Indeed, if the fog comes down in the mountains and you have no map and compass, simply following any path at random leads not to wisdom but probably to death. Furthermore, it also occurs to me that there’s only place you could be to know that every path leads to the top of the mountain and that’s suspended in the air a few hundred feet above it. In other words, my friend Jeff at the University of Toronto, without realizing it, was effectively claiming to be god himself. 

  Until the mid 1990s I hadn’t thought much myself about the question of how to navigate the maze of different religions. I’d been raised a Christian and had never talked much to those of different religions, so probably assumed, like many people, that most of the world’s religions were broadly similar. Then in 1997 I went along to a place in London, England, called “Speakers’ Corner”. Known as the free speech capital of the world, on a Sunday afternoon at Speakers’ Corner anyone can stand on a ladder or a soapbox and talk about what they believe. They argue, they debate. And at Speakers’ Corner I found plenty of people of other religions—everyone from Muslims to Buddhists to atheists (and, yes, atheism is technically a religion)—willing to attack what I believed and challenge my beliefs. I suddenly discovered that far from being superficially different but fundamentally the same, the different religions of the world are actually fundamentally different but only superficially the same. What I found fascinated me so much, by the way, I went on to do a PhD in Qur’anic Studies. The deeper I investigated Islam and the other world religions, the more I found myself drawn to the conclusion that Christianity and Christianity alone was true. 

  Now hang on a minute, I can hear a few of you say. Isn’t that a breathtakingly arrogant thing to claim—that Christianity alone is true? How narrow minded, how intolerant, how bigoted, how arrogant! Well, if that’s your reaction—and it’s a very fair objection—I’d like you to consider a couple of thoughts. First, all truth claims are exclusive. If you say that the capital of France is Paris, you’re saying that those who believe it to be Bonn, or Moose Jaw. And if you say that all religions are true, you’re excluding those who believe that only one religion is true. The only way to avoid every being exclusive is to say absolutely nothing about anything. Ever. 

  My other observation is that certainty is often what we want. Imagine that you were to go to your family doctor, suffering terrible stomach pains. Your doctor runs some tests and says: “Well, some people would take these little blue pills. Other people would take these red pills. Still others would take these yellow pills. Look, you choose whichever one you prefer, what you feel works for you, and I’ll write you a prescription.” How would you respond? I suspect you’d protest that you don’t want a set of personal preferences, what you want is a diagnosis and the facts. 

  So why do so many people think that it’s arrogant to say that only one religion is true? The more I’ve pondered this question, I’ve come to conclude it’s because many people think that religion is basically about being good or nice and so to say “my religion is the only one that is true” smacks of moral superiority. It seems like you’re saying I’m nicer, better, or holier than you. And how arrogant that would be, right? But what if true religion has very little to do with being good? Let me read you a very short encounter between Jesus and a young man who thought religion was all about being good—this comes from the Gospel of Mark, one of the four biographies of Jesus we find in the New Testament: 

  As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him. “Good teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to inherit eternal life?” 

  “Why do you call me good?” Jesus answered. “No one is good—except God alone. You know the commandments: ‘You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not give false testimony, you shall not defraud, honor your father and mother.’” 

   “Teacher,” he declared, “all these I have kept since I was a boy.” 

  Jesus looked at him and loved him. “One thing you lack,” he said. “Go, sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me.” 

  At this the man’s face fell. He went away sad, because he had great wealth. 

  That’s a fascinating encounter that Mark describes between Jesus and the young man. The young man thought religion was about being good, about keeping the commandments, about being holy. That’s actually a very common viewpoint—in fact most religions operate this way. Be it Islam, or Buddhism, or Hinduism—you name it—the basic idea is that if you are moral enough, you will earn your way to Paradise, Nirvana, a higher state of existence, whatever it is that you are looking for. And the problem with that it leads to arrogance and self-righteousness. 

  There is only one religion I know that reverses this traffic pattern and says it is has nothing to do with being getting to God via your goodness; indeed quite the opposite. The radical claim at the heart of the Christian faith is not that if we are clever enough or good enough, we might get to God but that nothing can bridge the gap from our side—but that God, in his love and his mercy and his grace has sought us out. Christians are not people who think they’re clever enough to have found God, but those who are humble enough to recognise we need God to rescue us— something the Bible claims he has done in and through Jesus Christ. 

  That’s one of many things about Christianity that is utterly unique. I’d like to briefly share three others with you, then bring this talk to a close and we can have some Q&A. Christianity is unique in its origin, its purpose and its method. 

  First, its origin. Christianity is unique because the founder claimed to be God himself. Jesus didn’t claim to be just another guru, or a teacher of morals, or a prophet or a wise man. He claimed to be the creator God himself, come to reconcile us to himself. That’s a staggering claim, one we can’t get around. As the Oxford professor C. S. Lewis put it: 

  A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic — on the level with the man who says he is a poached egg — or else he would be the Devil of Hell. You must make your choice. Either this man was, and is, the Son of God, or else a madman or something worse. You can shut him up for a fool, you can spit at him and kill him as a demon or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God, but let us not come with any patronizing nonsense about his being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to. 

  Second, its purpose. At the heart of Christianity lies not a moral self improvement plan as in other religions, but the promise of transformation. Christianity says that if you put your trust in Jesus, in what God did through Jesus’ life, death and resurrection, then forgiveness and reconciliation are possible—but so is new power, power to live differently, as God begins to transform your life and character from the inside out. That’s utterly different from the claims of any other religion or belief system. Furthermore, Christianity also promises transformation not just for us but for the world. Every other religion—including atheism—says this world will ultimately be destroyed, that it is garbage that will burn. That there is no hope at all for the material world. Christianity is unique in that it promises something very different. Listen to these words from Sri Lanka theologian, Vinoth Ramachandra: 

  [Christian] salvation lies not in an escape from this world but in the transformation of this world. Everything good and true and beautiful in history is not lost forever but will be restored and directed to the worship of God. All our human activity (in arts and sciences, economics and politics) and even the nonhuman creation will be brought to share in the liberating rule of God. This grand vision centers on the cross of Jesus Christ. There a vision of future hope opens up for the world. 

  You will not find hope for the world in any religious systems or philosophies of humankind. The biblical vision is unique. That is why when some say that there is salvation in other faiths I ask them ‘What salvation are you talking about?’. No faith holds out a promise of eternal salvation for the world the way the cross and resurrection of Jesus Christ do. 

  Third, and finally, Ch
￼
ristianity is unique in its method. Every other religion or belief system in the world is based on one of three methods: thinking, feeling or doing. In religions based on thinking, you have to learn, master or memorize certain ideas in order to achieve wisdom, nirvana, a higher state of human existence, to unlock the keys to life and the universe. 

  In religions based on feeling, you have to have the right experience, engage with the mystical, the numinous, get in touch with your feelings, have some kind of moment or encounter through which you can understand life, transcend the ordinary, encounter the divine. 

  In religions based on doing, you’re told live this way—obey these commands, put these principles into practice, follow these steps, and you’ll arrive at heaven, inner peace, the summit of the mountain. 

  Every religious system in the world is based on one of those three ways or a combination of them. Except Christianity, that is. The gospel is not a system of thought (although it’s an amazing thing to explore intellectually). The gospel is not an existential experience or a feeling (although knowing Jesus emotionally is deeply enriching). Nor is the gospel a set of deeds, rituals or actions to perform (although it will change what you do if you truly believe it). 

  Jesus did not come to bring new thoughts, new feelings, new commands but as God himself, to reveal God to us. That is who Jesus is, and that is why Jesus is unique. 

  Unlike any other religion, Christianity is not about what we can do, but about what God has done for us in Jesus. Every other religion says it is by your goodness, your effort, your wisdom, your cleverness that you can earn your way upwards. Christianity by contrast says that we can bring nothing, add nothing to the equation, but that it is all about God’s grace. 

  Do you see how that destroys all moral superiority, all pride, all self-righteousness, all arrogance? Christianity says that I am not saved because I am wise, good, or virtuous—because I know the truth, but because Jesus performed the truth. Salvation only comes if you admit you’re not a good person and that you desperately need God’s grace and forgiveness. Every other religion, belief system or system of thought leads you to ultimately look down on others because you believe you’re better than those who don’t believe as you do or who don’t do the right things. Christianity in contrast humbles you, because you have to realise that it has nothing to do with you.  

  Most of us are not happy with who we are. Look at the huge and growing self-help sections in the bookstore. Most people know, deep down, that something is wrong, something is broken, something has been lost. As J. R. R. Tolkien, author of The Lord of the Rings, put it beautifully in a letter to a friend: 

  We all long for Eden, and we are constantly glimpsing it: our whole nature at its best and least corrupted, its gentlest and most human, is still soaked with the sense of exile. 

  We all know that we have lost something. This is the problem that Jesus came to address and he does so uniquely. Jesus isn’t primarily interesting in ensuring we think the right thoughts; or have some wonderful experience; or even change our patterns of behaviour. But Jesus’ primary aim is to move us from darkness to light, from death to life. That’s what being a Christian means. 

  If you’re sitting here today and you’ve drifted into thinking that being a Christian is all about believing the right things, answering every question; or having the right feelings, the right experience; or doing the right thing, standing for moral truth, campaigning for the right issue—but you’ve never added to those things new life, you haven’t really grasped the reality of who Jesus is and what being a Christian means. 

  Jesus said: “I have come that you may have life and have it to the full.” 

  Why am I a Christian? Not because I believe I have cleverly worked it out and proven it to be true, using my own brilliance, nor because I have found in Christianity a moral system that enables me to be good, moral and upright. Quite the opposite. I am a Christian because I know what I’m really like behind the public image—and how much I need God’s forgiveness and grace and mercy. I am a Christian because I realise I can bring God nothing and I owe him everything. I pray that some of you may discover the forgiveness, love, joy, mercy and grace that come from being found by Jesus Christ, even this evening, for yourselves. 

   