主題分享
The Salvation of Christ 
Rev. Werner Peters 
It was almost midnight, and I was in a deep sleep. Suddenly I heard a loud knocking on my bedroom door and a voice shouted, “Is anyone in there?” 
I got up and stumbled to the door, wondering what in the world was going on. Who was at my bedroom door? How did they get into my house? Should I get something to protect myself? I didn’t know what to think in my sleep-dazed condition. I stumbled my way to the door, opened it, and there stood a big fireman, with his complete equipment on. What was just as alarming was that the hallway was filled with smoke. 
I was still half asleep while trying to make sense of all of this. There were other firemen in the house by now and they were shouting to one another, trying to locate other people in the apartment but it was just my wife and me. We were led out the front door where we saw firetrucks with their flashing lights extending to the entire neighborhood. 
What had happened? Our apartment was filled with smoke! After I woke up out of my stupor, the fireman pieced things together for me. I had left a pot on the stove and hadn’t turned the element off completely. Every evening before I go to bed, I am in the habit of preparing my porridge for the next day. I boil some water, put one cup of oats in the boiling water and turn off the stove. In the morning it is perfectly done and all I have to do then is reheat it. That night, although I turned the stove off, apparently, it didn’t go all the way off. I didn’t notice that it was still on and my wife and I went to bed. The water boiled away completely, the porridge boiled dry and began to smoke. And by 12 midnight, the apartment was filled with smoke. The people who lived in the apartment below us smelled the smoke and called the 911. The porridge was black like coal and the pot was ruined. 
And another complication – our smoke detector did not work and therefore we remained fast asaleep through this disaster. 
The firefighters explained how we could have died, even through there was no fire. In fact, he said, “20 minutes more, and you would have died from the toxins in that smoke!” He further explained, “Most people who die in a fire die from smoke inhalation before the fire even reaches them. You would not even have awakened from your sleep. You would have just slipped into a coma and died from the poisonous smoke.” 
The firefighters called our landlord the very next day to make sure he repaired our smoke detector. And now when I make porridge, I ALWAYS doublecheck to make sure I turn the stove off completely, and the landlord I have now always makes sure our smoke alarms are working. 
My wife and I were wonderfully saved that night from an premature death. Salvation is a wonderful thing. 
Our Need for the Salvation of Christ In the last edition of “By the Streams” I wrote about the corruption of mankind. The Bible teaches that we are born with a condition that affects all of us so deeply and so thoroughly that we need to be saved from it. This condition is called sinfulness. We are born with a nature that causes us to sin. We lie, we steal, we cheat and deceive others, we are prideful and self-centred. This condition so affects us that the Bible warns us that if we do nothing about it, we will die in this condition, lost forever and worthy of condemnation by a holy and just God. Glance through the headlines on any day of the week, and we will see plenty of evidence that mankind is broken, lost and morally bankrupt. And the majority of the human race is either ignorant of the danger that they are in, or are purposely neglecting to do anything about it. 
Imagine if I had begun arguing with the firefighter about my condition that night! What if I had told him, “Don’t worry. I will be okay. I do not need to be saved, and furthermore, you have now interrupted the good sleep that I was enjoying!” 
You would tell me that I am insane to answer that way. And yet millions of people are oblivious to the spiritual danger that they are in, or they reject the message of salvation that they are being offered. 
The Bible talks about a different kind of fire that awaits all those who reject the salvation of Christ. And from this horrible fate we must be saved. And the One who has the power to give us salvation from this judgment is Jesus Christ. 
Only One Source of Salvation 
First of all, there is only one way of salvation. As unpopular as this truth is, the Bible is very clear about this. Just prior to the Lord’s departure from this earth, he told his disciples that he was going to prepare a place for them (and all who believe in Him). He said “ And you know the way to where I am going.” 5 Thomas said to him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?” 6 Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me” 
Here Jesus asserts that he is the only way to the heavenly Father. There is no other way to the eternal life that we all long for. Salvation can be found exclusively in Jesus. 
In yet another passage in the Word of God we are told the following - 12 And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.” 
There is no one else on earth or in heaven who can save us. The salvation of Christ is our only hope. 
Although the firemen saved us from fatal smoke inhalation that night, there would have been other possibilities. The person living below us could have saved us. A neighbour could have saved us. But in the case of our spiritual condition, only the Creator of our souls can save us. 
This is not a popular message today. Today, it is popular to say that there are many roads that lead to salvation; that it doesn’t really matter which road you are on, because they all lead to the same place. Yet this statement is standing on thin air. To say this defies reason and offends most people who hold to any kind of faith. The claims of Christ at this very point require a response. Either it is true or it is false. If it is false, then Jesus himself was deceived and was not the Son of God after all. Which will you believe? 
The word of God is very clear on this point. Our sin has turned us into enemies of God, and the only road to reconciliation and peace with God is through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. 
How to Receive this Salvation 
How do we receive this salvation? Again, the Bible is clear and easy to understand at this point. “Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved.” The Apostle Paul spoke these words to a man who, in a crisis realised that his soul was in danger, and he cried out, “What do I have to do to be saved?” Isn’t it wonderful that the most important message we can ever hear is also so simple and straight forward? 
To believe in the Lord Jesus means to trust him with our souls and our future destiny. To believe in him means that I will follow Him. To believe in Him means I will enter into a relationship with Him. To believe in him means my sins are forgiven and He doesn’t hold those sins against me any longer. It is a complete act of trust, not unlike the healthy and wholesome relationship of a husband and a wife who love one another deeply, and who each lives for the fulfillment of the other. 
In another place, we are told the following. 16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. 
It is because of God’s love for our lost world and for sinners like you and me that he sent his only Son to earth to become completely human, so that he could die for us, and thereby save us. 
Our salvation was achieved with a high price. It cost our Creator the life of his Son. Our sin required the sacrifice of a perfect man, a sinless man, and the only sinless man who ever lived was Jesus Christ. Why did our salvation require death as punishment? God told Adam and Eve at the very beginning, “The day that you eat from this forbidden fruit, you will certainly die.” And Jesus died in our place, as our substitute. 
This salvation is free. It is given to us in response to our faith, and that is all that is required. That is what grace is. Grace is unmerited favour. And the Bible tells is that it is by grace that we have been saved, not of works. We cannot win God’s favour by trying to be good. We do not earn merit points that will give us a better chance at eternal life. God grants us salvation and forgiveness of sins freely, in response to our faith in the merits of Christ alone. This can be a difficult concept to grasp, because in our human relationships, we are always reciprocating favours. 
When I am invited to dinner with someone, I feel obligated that I must extend a return invitation to that person to my place now, and serve him or her at least as well as they served me. When someone buys me a coffee, I look for an opportunity to buy him a coffee in return. Life is like that. Not so with God. He gives us salvation freely, and forgives us of our sins freely. He does not do so because we have earned favour in his eyes. And there is no way that we can ever repay Him for the grace that He has given us. And because of this so great salvation, we follow Him and seek to obey Him out of gratitude, but not to repay Him, because that is impossible. “8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast.(Eph 2:8-9) 
The Salvation of Christ is a Complete Salvation 
The salvation of Christ is a complete salvation. In other words, I do not have to get saved again and again. When I was a young Christian, I wanted to be certain that I was really saved; I didn’t want to take any chances that I might go to hell when I died. So at any evangelistic meeting whenever the invitation was given to respond to the offer of salvation, I would accept the invitation and I would go to the altar at the front and have someone pray with me to make sure that I was saved. I don’t know how many times I did this until one day a wise counsellor pointed out that Jesus said these words, “…whoever comes to me I will never cast out” (John 6:37). It still took me a few years after that to fully realize that I did not have to live my life in fear of being lost. I could trust what Jesus said and fully believe that I was accepted in the sphere of God’s grace, and that God would not hold my sins against me because I was fully forgiven. 
One of my all-time favourite passages is in John 10. Jesus uses sheep as an analogy to speak about us and our salvation. He says “28 I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. 29 My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father’s hand. 30 I and the Father are one. 
Jesus promises us that if we belong to Him, we will never perish. Not only that, no one can remove us out of the Father’s care and keeping. Jesus emphasized the security that is ours by reminding us that He and the father are one in this resolve to keep us as his purchased possession. We can never be lost once are genuinely saved. This is wonderful news, and when I fully realized this, I felt an anxiety that had always been with me, leave. I have never been afraid of losing my salvation since that day, not because I am a good person, but because God’s promises are certain. 
The Salvation of Christ includes Justification 
Paul used a lot of ink to talk about this salvation that comes from Jesus Christ in the book of Romans. He teaches us that even Abraham was saved by having faith in God’s words. It even says right in the book of Genesis that when God told him about the great number of descendants that he would have, Abraham believed God, and God counted it (or reckoned it) to him as righteousness. In the same way, Paul argues, when we believe in Jesus Christ, it is counted to us as righteousness, to the extent that we are justified by our faith. Justification is a wonderful thing, and it is included in our salvation. We no longer have to justify ourselves, not that we ever could! It is God who now justifies us. So what does this justification mean? 
Justification means that God now considers us as righteous in his eyes. Not because of what we have done, but because the righteousness of Christ has been reckoned to us. We have been acquitted and counted as righteous. We have been justified. Because we are justified, the Bible also tells us that there is no condemnation awaiting us when it is time to judge the hearts of all men. We will not be subjected to trial in God’s court! Imagine this. Because our sins have been paid for, because Jesus was already punished for our sins, because justice has been satisfied in the death and burial of Jesus Christ, we do not have to judged! We are not condemned! Romans 8:1 says, “There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus” 
This means that God will never hold our sins against us. As far as the east is from the west, that is how far He has removed our sins. How far is the east from the west? It is actually an infinite distance because unlike the North and South, there is no finite east or west points. 
Salvation of Christ includes Glorification 
The Bible says 30 And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified. 
What does it mean to be glorified? It means that when we see Jesus in his heavenly state, we too will be changed into that heavenly state. In other words, when Jesus returns to the earth like He promised, all who have become the children of God will be changed! Read the following verse slowly in order to fully realize its implications. 
20 But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, 21 who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. 
We will be transformed to be “like his glorious body”. Won’t that be something?! 
Imagine what we will be like without any sin nature. That is what we will be like in all eternity. Imagine being able to reflect the goodness of our Saviour in our being, without any shadow of sin or doubt getting in the way. We will be able to experience the holiness of the absence of sin for the first time. Never again will we feel our conscience jabbing our hearts. Never again will we feel the guilt that comes along with our sin nature. Never again will we feel the stress that comes from covering up a lie or a deception. Never again will we have to say, “I’m sorry. Please forgive me.” The Apostle John tells is that “2 Beloved, we are God’s children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is” (1 John 3:2). 
If we are children of God through our trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, this is what we have to look forward to. And as fully transformed and completely redeemed people, we will be a source of praise and glory to God throughout all the ages. In fact, the presence of Christ in our lives now is meant to be a source of the hope of glory that we will experience in the future. 4 When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory (Col 3:4). 
What Salvation in Christ Means Today 
Salvation in Christ is not just a guarantee of admission to eternal life with Jesus Christ. Salvation in Christ means a new life that begins NOW! There are many who have accepted Jesus as their Saviour because of their fear of being lost for eternity, but have little awareness of the fact that salvation is much more than that. Salvation means a new life that begins on the day that you were born again. And what does that new life look like? 
First of all, it is a life that began through an act of faith, and therefore it continues to be lived by faith. Your new life is characterized by walking in faith. You will often want to see evidence of the realities and truths that we are taught in God’s word, and often we will have glimpses of that evidence, but for the most part, it is a walk of faith. Just as wholesome human relationships are built on a growing trust of another, so too, our relationship with the Lord will grow on trust. As we trust Him to honour His word, He honours us, and the more blessing will be ours as we grow in that walk of faith. 
It is a life that is free from the burden of guilt that you had before you became a Christian. You will always be remorseful over the many ways in which you offended the holiness of God. You will always be extremely grateful for the complete pardon that has been granted to you. And you will love the Lord to the extent that you are aware of how deeply you have been forgiven. 
In an event in the life of Jesus, a woman came into his presence while he was eating with a number of religious leaders. She anointed his feet with extremely valuable ointment, causing an aroma to waft through the entire room, but causing the religious leaders to question why she would do that. In reply to their concern, Jesus said, “Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven—for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little” (Luke 7:47). 
I would encourage you to read this story. It helps us to understand the relationship between the depth of forgiveness and our correspondent love to Him. Your salvation in Christ will lead you on a path of a intensifying love for the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Salvation in Christ a Life of Growth 
Life of salvation in Christ will be a life of spiritual growth. The Bible uses physical growth as an analogy of spiritual growth. Just as we would become physically “mature”, so to it is expected that we become spiritually mature. In a couple of instances in the Bible, the writers speak of Christians who remain in their “infancy”. Paul writes to the Christians in his letter to the church in Corinth,”But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. 2 I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it. And even now you are not yet ready, 3 for you are still of the flesh” (1 Cor 3:1-2) 
In other words, Paul is equating spiritual infancy (or spiritual immaturity) as behaving “fleshly”. Another way of putting it is that they are behaving as if there was no change from their previous life of sin since they have become believers. If true salvation has taken place, it WILL eventually lead to transformation, growth and spiritual maturity. Otherwise there is good reason to believe that the profession of faith was not genuine. 
In yet another passage we read the following. “12 For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food, 13 for everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. 14 But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil.”(Heb 5:12-14). 
Salvation in Christ means a life of growth towards spiritual maturity. When we appear before the judgment seat of Christ, we will be held to account for our spiritual growth. We are all expected to develop to the point where we can make a positive contribution of service to the Body of Christ, i.e. the church. Your Pastor cannot be expected to do everything that needs to be done in the Body of Christ. He needs others whose spiritual gifts become obvious to help him in this endeavour of growing the body to maturity. That is why the church exists. We are all there to serve one another in various ways. Please reflect on the following words in the book of Ephesians. 
“11 And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, 12 to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, 13 until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, 14 so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful scheme” (Eph 4:11-14). 
Every Christian has been given some spiritual ability with which we are to serve others. It could be the ability to teach, it might be the ability to govern in a leadership capacity, or it might be an unusual ability to speak to others about the gospel. For a more complete list of spiritual gifts, read through 1 Corinthians 12 and Romans 12. 
Are you becoming mature as a believer? Or are you still “drinking milk” when you should be eating “solid food” from the word of God. A major part of this salvation that we have in Christ is our spiritual growth into adulthood. It is tragic to see a 20 year old man in diapers, but unfortunately it happens. It is just as tragic to see a Christian who has been saved for 20 years who still acts like a spiritual baby. 
Salvation in Christ - A Life filled Christ 
Along with this salvation that we have in Christ is the promise of his presence by way of the Holy Spirit. The Bible teaches that when we become genuine believers in Jesus Christ, we receive the Holy Spirit who lives inside of us, never to leave. Read carefully these blessed words. 
11 In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, 12 so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. 13 In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, 14 who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory (Eph 1:11-14). 
Not only does the Holy Spirit live inside of us; we are told that the Holy Spirit is a seal upon our lives. This seal is a symbol of the truth that we belong to God. We are His purchased possession. The Holy Spirit is a sign to all of God’s enemies that by virtue of the authority of the God of the Universe, we are his precious possession. 
The Holy Spirit is also referred to as the “Guarantee of our inheritance”. In other words, the Holy Spirit is God’s pledge to us that eternal life is ours, along with everything that awaits us in our future in glory. There is an inheritance waiting for us, and the Holy Spirit in our hearts is God’s way of granting us assurance of our future destiny in Christ. We have so much to be thankful for! 
The Holy Spirit is also given to us in order to make Jesus Christ known to us. The Lord Jesus is fully God, but also fully human, and therefore cannot physically be present ith us, and so He has given us the Spirit in order to represent Jesus Christ to us and in us. In this way, Jesus Christ abides in us through His Spirit. He informs our conscience. He convicts us when we sin. He enlarges Jesus Christ to us. He points us in the right direction through his Word. 
Salvation in Christ means HOPE! 
And finally, our salvation in Christ fills our life with hope! Hope is oxygen to our souls. People will often hope for material things. (I hope to have a big house some day. I hope to have a great career one day, etc). But the hope that our salvation in Christ gives us is literally beyond this world. It is a hope that extends beyond our physical existence. What can be better than that? This is a hope that speaks to the poorest of the poor. It is a hope that fills a patient with terminal illness with joy even in his sorrow. It is an encouragement to a criminal who sits in prison but has repented of his sin, that even though he is behind bars, he has found freedom in Christ. 
Are you filled with hope today? Do you know this salvation that is found in Christ? Even after reading this article, if you still have questions and you want to know more about this wonderful salvation, please speak to your pastor, and I am sure he will help you to find answers to your questions. God bless you as you read these words. 

