生命历程
God Changed My Life Trough Crisis
Ben Yim
  I attended church sporadically since I was about four or five years old. It was not until I was in high-school that I started to attend more regularly, but even then it was more of a social event to meet friends and at most a “religious” activity, as opposed to a sincere time of worship with God. This was evident by the fact that I seldom went to church once I started niversity; my university education was more important to me than attending church, and to put it simply, obtaining a good education was my highest priority and where my heart was (cf. Matthew 6:21, Luke 12:34), it was my god. It is hard for me to honestly claim that I was attending church to draw closer to God during this time of my life. I was clearly more focused on obtaining my degree with little or no consideration to where or how God fit into my plan, as long as I could obtain a good education that would lead to a successful well paying career. My ultimate goal was to be rich, so the underlining master of my life was money (cf. Matthew 6:24, Luke 16:13) 

  Praise God that by His sovereign grace during my fourth year of university He lovingly put me into a situation that forced me to re-evaluate what was important. To help put things into context I will provide some background information. I had finished my third year of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Toronto and I was successfully completing my Professional Experience Year (PEY) co-op work term with a large well recognized global company; I was on my way to accomplishing my goals of being wealthy. It was during this time, while I still seldom attended church that a concerned and caring old Christian friend made me promise to attend their church for four straight weeks (which I did reluctantly). 

  I attended church for three straight weeks as promised and on the fourth week the church went on a camp trip (retreat), which I also attended in keeping with my promise. On the last day of the retreat through a life challenging test (LITERALLY!), God loving provided me with the time needed to think and evaluate my life. As some of you may have noticed, I have a lot of 
scars on my body. Many of these scares were a result of a boating accident during this retreat. I was involved in a very serious boating ‘Sea-Doo’ accident (I was actually the only person to survive a Sea-Doo accident, out of three separate incidents at Lake Simcoe that Civic Holiday Weekend). While doubling on a rental Sea-Doo, I flew into a boat. I had a compound fracture on my right arm (the bone was actually protruding out of my arm), Coracoacromial Ligament (CL) separation on my right shoulder, stretched/damaged Posterior Cruciate Ligament (PCL), and a minor skull fracture, which account for many of the visual scars. Additionally, I had serious head injuries. By the time I was brought to shore I was in a seizure, bleeding out of my nose and ears, and was in a level three coma. I was in the ICU (Intensive Care Unit) for the first week, during which time the doctors were not sure whether I would survive. Through many prayers and more importantly by God’s grace and mercy I survived the accident and was out of the ICU in just a week! God obviously had other plans for my life. 

  I do not remember anything about the accident other than waiting in line for my turn to ride the Sea-Doo and then walking up three weeks later in the hospital. It is probably better this way as I was apparently in a lot of pain during this time and had a bunch of tubes running out of my mouth to help me breathe. It was not until about a month after the accident that I began to discover the full extent of my injuries. Due to the head injuries I sustained I was unable to properly read, write, speak – let alone perform math functions – which are all essential skills needed to complete my final year of engineering. Needless to say, this was an extremely difficult time for me as I valued my education above all things and was no longer able to complete my degree. 

  As amazing as this is about to sound, the difficulties due to these physical traumas (including the head injury) were minimal in comparison to the spiritual battle that was being fought. Although the accident occurred at a church event, in my opinion, many unchristian words and actions followed the accident, probably due to legal concerns. These actions seriously tested my Christian beliefs because I could not understand how key church leaders, such as pastors, could act so ungodly. This did not make sense to me and in my sinfulness and anger I denounced the church and refuse to believe that God existed. I then felt very angry and cheated, thinking that I had wasted my weekends and tithes at church, even though the time spent attending church was often to be with friends and I really did not tithe all that much. My sinful nature caused me to not only be angry at the church leaders, but to despise their very existence, which put their lives in real serious danger. To validate the seriousness of this statement, and without going into too much detail, please allow me to elaborate a bit more. I had a ‘shady’ background before attending church more regularly in high-school and had some ‘very dangerous’ friends, some of whom are probably in jail, if not dead. 

  It was during this angry volatile time, after denouncing God and struggling to deal with the severity and implications of my head injuries, that I received a call from a church leader that angered me so much that I nearly had them killed. It is only by God’s grace that nobody picked up the phone when I called to put a death contract on the church leader and his family. You may wonder how it is possible for someone who had attended church regularly during his high-school years, and was very involved with church activities during that time to be that angry. Please remember that I was probably not a true Christian at the time (only a church attendee), an extremely great sinner who just denounced the very existence of God, and just starting to accept that the severity of my head injuries – my diminished reading, writing, and mathematical skills – would make it impossibly for me finish my final year of engineering and obtain my degree, which at the time that was my sole goal in life, it was what my heart treasured. This does not make my actions or hatred acceptable by any means before God to which I will be held fully accountable, but it is helps you understand how I could very easily plan and attempt to have a whole family killed in my selfish, angry, unbelieving sinner nature. 

  Ironically, God used a close friend who did not attend church to say some very profound words to me. He said, “How can you stop believing in God because of one person? You either believe in God or you don’t...” It is truly amazing and humbling how God used a non-Christian to rebuke my sinful, faulty logic. The Lord graciously began to reveal Himself to me through many specific circumstances, all of which I believe to be my personally miracles from God. God very, very, very patiently and graciously shower me with His love, through God loving Christians, as I slowly tried to re-evaluate Christianity and what it actually meant. Praise God that He has guided me back into His loving arms; that He did not let me go even when I refused to belief in His existence. I thank God that He put key people in my life to steer me back to Him. It is only by His amazing grace that I am alive and now attend CGCT (Chinese Gospel Church - Toronto); a very God focused and Biblically grounded church. 

  Due to the time limit I cannot go into the full details of what was involved, but a key lesson that I learned was that your faith must be solely rooted in God by the saving acceptance of Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit; NOT on church attendance or participation in church programs, and not even on church leaders/pastors because regardless of how sincere church leaders may be, all humans are sinners and ultimately fallible. A key passage that the Lord pressed upon my heart to help me cope with my ordeal was Matthew 7:21-23 (NIV-1984), where Jesus says, “Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name drive out demons and perform many miracles?’ Then I will tell them plainly, ‘I never knew you. Away form me, you evildoers!” I may have misinterpreted the words and actions of the church leaders involved, but it was reassuring to learn that nobody is perfect and even very significant church members, such as church reverends and pastors, can be wrong. 

  We need to base our faith and beliefs on the infallible Word of God, which God has graciously left behind for each of us to study. For “All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work.” (2 Timothy 3:16-17 NIV-1984). I truly believe “...that in all things God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose.” (Romans 8:28 NIV- 1984) 

  I praise God that by His amazing grace my relationship with Him has grown through this experience. I praise God that by His grace I was provided with an experience that, as difficult as it may have been, forced me to reassess life and in turn grow closer to Him. I praise God that by His grace I have been provided with this opportunity to share my testimony with you and given the time to reflect on His abundant love in my life as I prepared my testimony. Most importantly, I thank the Lord for the gracious gift of Jesus Christ that He has provided to an undeserving sinner such as me as means to reconcile with Him for all my sins and transgressions and for the gift of the Holy Spirit which is evidence of being a part of His family, and for the great give of the infallible Scripture (Bible) which is so accessible to use in Canada and North America. I thank God for His grace! 

  I understand that my testimony may sound extreme to some of you and I apologize to the people that find it hard to follow as I have left out many details, however to those of you that have not fully accepted Jesus Christ as there Lord and Saviour I ask,“How many of you can honestly say that you know what you are living for? How many of you are truly happy and content with what you do and/or do not have?” How amazing would it be to know and experience the answers to these life fulfilling questions and to be fully content with the blessings (not necessarily materially riches) that the Lord abundantly provides to each Christian? I invite and encourage you to inquire more about God and Jesus Christ. I invite you to read Romans 5:9-11 and Ephesians 1:3-10 to get a gimp of the great promise that God has made to all those who are willing to believe in the saving grace provided through Jesus Christ. I hope that you can keep an open mind. 

  Please do not think that becoming a Christian will make everything better and all your problems will suddenly disappear. God warns us that “...everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,” (2 Timothy 3:12 NIV-1984). At the same time God assures us that “No temptation has seized you except what is common to man. And God is faithful; he willnot let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it.” (1 Corinthians 10:13 NIV-1984). Although becoming a Christian may be more difficult, I am confident that it will be the most important, glorious and joyous decision you ever make. 

  God directs us, “Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.” (Philippians 4:6-7 NIV-1984). “So do not worry, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.” (Matthew 6:31-34 NIV-1984) 

  I strongly invite and challenge you to look into the Bible for answers and to even contact your church leaders about questions you may have about Christianity. 

  Thank you once again for time and patience. I end my testimony with sobering, truthful words that speak powerfully to me,“Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners--of whom I am the worst. 16 But for that very reason I was shown mercy so that in me, the worst of sinners, Christ Jesus might display his unlimited patience as an example for those who would believe on him and receive eternal life. 17 Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.” (1 Timothy 1:15-17 NIV-1984). 

  

   Additional Verses for Consideration 

  Romans 5:9-11 NIV-1984: Since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved from God’s wrath through him! For if, when we were God’s enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his Son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through his life! 11 Not only is this so, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. 

  Ephesians 1:3-10 NIV-1984: Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will-- to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the One he loves. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God’s grace that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. And he made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment--to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. 

  Isaiah 55:7-11 NIV-1984: Let the wicked forsake his way and the evil man his thoughts. Let him turn to the LORD, and he will have mercy on him, and to our God, for he will freely pardon. “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways,” declares the LORD. “As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. As the rain and the snow come down from heaven, and do not return to it without watering the earth and making it bud and flourish, so that it yields seed for the sower and bread for the eater, so is my word that goes out from my mouth: It will not return to me empty, but will accomplish what I desire and achieve the purpose for which I sent it. 

  Matthew 6:19-34 NIV-1984: “Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. “The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness! “No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannotserve both God and Money. “Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more important than food, and the body more important than clothes? Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they? Who of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life? “And why do you worry about clothes? See how the lilies of the field grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? So do not worry, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things willbe given to you as well. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. 

   