字号：小 中 大 


Short Term Medical Trip to India (I)
◆ JK

  “Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the LORD that will stand.” 
                                                                                                                         Pr 19:21 

  We weren’t supposed to go to India, we were supposed to go to Ecuador. Ecuador is nice. It had majestic mountains, beautiful coastlines, exciting jungles, interesting culture, a mission position that fit my qualifications as a family doctor and, most importantly, it wasn’t hot. How my wife CK and I ended up serving for a year in a small mission hospital in hot, humid, sticky, intense, incredible India is certainly evidence of God’s sovereignty…as well as His sense of humour. We definitely had our own plans, and dripping buckets of sweat on daily basis was not one of them, but we are so thankful that we serve, and are loved by a sovereign God, who plans with perfect knowledge and wisdom for His glory and the sanctification of His people. He used our year away to burn away a lot of the safe Christian life we were living in the West, showing us that He is far greater, far stronger, far holier and far more lovely than we had let Him be in our lives. 

  “…and behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.” 
                                                                           Matt 28:20 

  My wife CK and I have always felt that God wanted us more involved with missions in some way, but were not sure how. We knew that every believer is called to participate in some way in God’s redemptive plan for the world, but we wanted to see if God was calling us to more than just praying for and supporting missionaries overseas. 

  I’m a family doctor by training and my wife CK is a public health nurse and we wanted to see if God could use those skills for His service in a cross-cultural setting. Serving in Bihar for a year was the result of a decision to explore whatever paths God might lead us along. Sounds simple, but God had to first break down a lot of our personal “plans” about how we would allow ou
￼
rselves to serve Him. Many times we as believers tell ourselves reasons why serving overseas isn’t “practical”… at least not right now. Not until I finish school, not until I’m established in my profession, not until I’m married, not until we have kids, not until the kids are grown, not until I’m financially secure enough to take some “unpaid” time off. Reasons. Rationalizations. Excuses. We can call them what we want, but we often put them in the way being obedient to God’s calling and letting Him guide our steps. But God is persistent, patient and unstoppable. He uses anything and everything at His disposal to remind us of His place in our lives…if we have ears to hear. 

  For us, God’s reminder came in the form of two pastors from Peru visiting our church from Partners International. I don’t remember what they preached about, but what stuck with me and my wife was when one of them said, “There is a lot of work to be done for the Lord overseas, but the workers are few. A lot of people say to us that they will go, but they never do. So, if you say you’ll go, just go!” The words cut us to the bone and we knew God was using those pastors to rebuke us and our excuses. For quite a while after we got married we had been researching for the “perfect” mission position, but always seemed to find some excuse for why things wouldn’t work or would be impractical. We were stalling and not “going.” Making careful, wise decisions is good, but did we trust God so little that if the possible places to serve didn’t exactly fit our criteria, we wouldn’t go? If we couldn’t do exactly what we wanted, would we just forget about the whole thing? Jesus tells us as we go out into the world with the purpose of making disciples of all nations that He is with us always, to the end of the age. If this promise is true, then it shouldn’t matter if where we go doesn’t fit our exact criteria, or is too hot, or too cold, or too strange. If Christ is for us, who can be against us? What can separate us from the love of Christ? With this encouragement in mind, we once again contacted our sending agency, Serving in Mission (SIM), and asked them to send us where they felt the need was greatest and our skills could be best used. We entrusted ourselves to God’s perfect will and it led us to Bihar, India, a place where the light of Christ is sorely needed. 

  “Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.” Ps 23:4 

  “You’re going WHERE!?” It’s so backwards there!” 
  “The only time I went there, I got robbed!” 
  “Be careful. The people there aren’t good people, they’re hard inside.” 
  “Volunteering? You mean you’re not getting paid?” 
  “Bihar?... Never heard of it.” 
  “Hey, I’m from there!...You’ll LOVE it!” 

   Bihar, India. Not a place many have heard of and those who have don’t seem to think very highly of it. That’s a bit of an understatement actually - in fact, some people downright despise it while others are terrified of the place. It is the poorest state in India, and has a population of about 100 million people, the majority of whom live in rural areas. It has one of the poorest literacy rates (63%) and is famous for being the place where the buddha was said to have sat under the bodhi tree to receive enlightenment, but now is more famous for being “backwards” and one of the most corrupt places in all of India. It was not uncommon in the recent past for men to run for public office while being tried for murder at the same time and then end up winning the election! Not the most appealing of places, yet this is the place that God chose for us to learn, to grow and to serve. 

   The plan was first to learn as much Hindi and culture as we could in 2.5 months in Delhi and then transition on to serving at Duncan Hospital in the town of Raxaul, Bihar. In Delhi we lived right in the middle of a “simple, but safe” neighbourhood called Bhogal Market. In the mornings we would take Hindi lessons from a language helper and then immerse ourselves in the life of the surrounding Hindi-only-speaking neighbourhood in the afternoons. We were encouraged to try to do everything in Hindi. We bought our groceries in Hindi, asked for directions in Hindi, haggled for better deals in Hindi and even shooed away pesky pigeons in Hindi (Jao Kabuter! Jao! – Get lost pigeon!). When we went out we were stared at, glared at, laughed at, swindled, smiled at, shown kindness from complete strangers and treated like long-lost relatives from people we had just met. Once, we had sandals stolen at a mosque and another time had our apartment broken into and ransacked (while we were out), with everything we owned opened and searched except (praise God!) for the travel wallet containing our passports and rent money! It was certainly a time when we learned more fully what it means to find one’s strength and one’s identity in Christ. The things that we used to do and the people we used to be as professionals weren’t applicable in this environment. In Delhi it became clear that even though both of us knew in our minds that our primary identity is found only in Christ, we had unconsciously let the jobs we had, the activities we participated in and the achievements we had made, form too much of how we viewed ourselves. None of it matters if you can’t even get groceries by yourself without getting laughed at because you just asked for a pound of shoes. So how do you respond? Do you despair? Get angry? Complain? Become disgruntled and bitter? Or do you cling all the more tightly to the One you should have been clinging tightly too even when you were “accomplished”? If you truly want to see how rooted your identity is in Christ and not your job, education, status or accomplishments, ask God to put you in a situation where you have no choice but to rely on Him and His strength. It may be uncomfortable for a time, but you’ll never regret it. 

   Despite the various difficulties we encountered in Delhi, there was still joy. Joy in knowing that we were actively participating in God’s redemptive plan for India. Joy in seeing God’s strength working through our weaknesses as we struggled to adapt to the language and culture. Joy in seeing God work through His people, bringing those lost in darkness into saving knowledge of Him as we worked with, supported and encouraged the SIM missionaries in Delhi. Joy, mixed with pain at times, at seeing God burn away the “self-confident”, “accomplished” people who we thought we were, and shape us into the people that He created us to be - worshippers who boasted less in their own accomplishments (because they weren’t very great) and more in the LORD and in His grace. 

  God used our time in Delhi to help prepare us for Bihar. He broke down many things in us that needed breaking, but he was at the same time building us up to become more conformed to His image. It isn’t always a comfortable process, but we are so blessed because of it. 

   November 19th, 2011 we left Delhi on a 24h train for Raxaul, Bihar and Duncan Hospital. 

   