得救见证
The Priority of Life
Sharon
I grew up in a traditional Asian Christian household, where hearing the gospel and attending church were familiar routines. Consequently, at some point, going to church became habitual, sometimes simply because my family did. It wasn't until high school that I began contemplating my own beliefs about faith. I often heard others share testimonies of pivotal moments where their faith skyrocketed, leading them to commit their lives to God. Because of this, I assumed I needed a similar experience, anticipating a significant event that would transform my perspective and suddenly have a huge leap in my faith journey. Despite acknowledging the existence of God, I struggled to believe in Him wholeheartedly.

Throughout high school and my first year of university, I waited for this transformative moment. However, it wasn't until my second year of university, when I had to move out of the dorms that my perspective started to shift. Through God's blessings, I somehow ended up living with a few girls from one of the Christian fellowships at my school, even though I had barely attended and had no connections prior. Despite my initial reluctance due to the busy school schedule, these girls introduced me to fellowship and church, gradually immersing me in a loving and supportive community.

During this time, however, I was still consumed by school, prioritizing it as it became an idol of some sort in my life. With it constantly taking the number one spot in my mind at almost all times, and with it having all of my focus, energy, and devotion primarily, it hindered my spiritual life as I rarely made the time to read God’s Word and talk to Him outside of church and fellowship, and even if I did, my full attention was never there, always thinking about what work needs to be completed after, leaving Him at essentially the bottom of my priority list, which left me lacking a true personal relation with God.  With a lack of full trust and faith that He would take care of me and my burdens, I was always trying to control the results and all components of my life by my desires and wishes. This eventually led to me feeling extremely drained, stressed, and anxious at all times.

I remember one day during our Friday night fellowship, we had a guest speaker who said something simple but ended up sticking with me that entire week. They had said “If you love something, you will make time for it no matter what” and it was then that I felt as if God was speaking to me, calling me back to Him in my time of lacking and having no progress in my faith journey and helping me realized that my priorities were not set straight. Deep down, I knew there was a God, and I knew that I wanted to believe in Him, but all this time, I was not willing to spend time building that relationship, expecting it to just come naturally without effort. I recognized my tendency to make excuses when it came to the question of whether I truly wholeheartedly believed in God because, at the end of the day, I didn't like uncertainty and I wanted to be in control of my life. Especially living away from home, I was responsible for my faith, and for me to grow, I came to realize that I needed to start being more proactive rather than passive. I began going to church every Sunday after that and gradually, I felt my heart which was once hardened by the desire for control slowly softened, feeling his profound love and care for me, I felt a willingness to grow my relationship with Him. I found myself seeking God more in times of need and stress, talking to Him more on the daily, and feeling my love for Him grow. Instead of constantly trying to take control, I started to let God take control of my life, learning to surrender my will to His, it was a constant reminder to myself that God has a plan for me and to simply try my best and trust in Him. And so in that surrender, I found true freedom from all the stresses and anxiety I was once overwhelmed with. 

Now I'm in my third year of university and to say that I don't get stressed would be a lie, but the stress I feel is different from before. Knowing that I cannot handle all my worries and stresses myself, I have come to learn from God, bringing my burdens up to Him. With this new foundation of trust, my view on schooling and other aspects of my life has shifted. While I understand that hard work is important, at the end of the day, rather than excessively stressing and worrying over things beyond my control, I have learned to simply try my best and leave the rest to God, because what is meant for me will come my way in accordance with His will and not mine. 

This shift of perspective and priorities putting God at the forefront of my life brings a sense of security and peace in all I do, knowing that Godis with me and watches over me with His love and compassion. Though such sins of pride and jealousy still occur occasionally, they consistently serve as a reminder that God is eternally good and loving, as He sent His Son Jesus to die on that cross and give us as sinners, who should be separated from God who is perfect, a path to salvation through Him. This truth sets God as the ultimate goal in life. Instead of fixating on such earthly treasures, we are called to fix our gaze upon Him. And so through this, I've learned to recognize that everything we do should be done for His glory and grace, knowing that He alone is the source of true fulfillment and everlasting joy.

Looking back and reflecting on my journey, it was God's care and goodness to me that He allowed me to come to this school that I once blamed Him for allowing me to come to, to find such a caring community and putting me with my roommates that I live with now. I realized that it was all in His plan, for me to grow in my faith, such trials were needed for me to find my foundation in Him.

